I’ve been at Xalgorithms for about a month now. The learning curve has been extremely steep, but that's okay. I’m learning as I go along. I started learning python this month. In order for me to really get involved with the shapefile data that Ted has, I have to utilize Google Earth Engine. And to do that, I have to learn python. So I’ve been focusing on that, and getting adjusted to school this semester. Has it been a little frustrating learning to code? Yes, of course. But I know once I get the fundamentals down I’ll get to utilize them in a more productive way. Getting adjusted to my last semester in college has also made progress a little slower than I thought it would be.

I’ve also been excited to write this blog. Writing is one of my passions, and so I’ve been excited to do this and share what I’ve learned over the past month. In a one sentence summary, I’ve learned what Google Earth Engine is, how to code python on a Mac, what systems thinking is, and in a less technical way, how to ask questions. 

Google Earth Engine is a catalog of satellite imagery and geospatial datasets. It's useful to ERA because we’re able to run code and see ecoregions around the world on it. Python is important because the Engine has a Python API. It’s also important for me to know in general, in order to understand code and know how to code myself. I’ve been learning with the help of Ted and of LinkedIn Learning, which I gained access to through my University. I will also be using Python in one of my courses this semester, so this has been very helpful to me not just in this role, but academically as well. 

I learned about systems thinking through a meeting I had through a communications meeting with Joseph, Keith, Calvin, and Craig a couple weeks ago. Funny enough, the day after that meeting, I learned about systems thinking again from a different perspective in an environmental monitoring course I’m taking this semester. Systems thinking is the process in how things influence one another as a whole. It’s how things work together to survive and thrive. An example of this is how necessary it is for some forests to burn regularly in order for new life to grow and to keep the forest ecosystem healthy. Relating to ERA *ask Joseph to explain here again*

Joseph notes
He sent series of podcasts to calvin, staffor dbeer found systems thinking in the 70s and he elaborated the methods for cybernetic which imlment systems level feedback loop sfor society management. So he was trying to implement this in chile but it got overthrown by the country above them. 
This is considered to be a left wing thing, 
ERA, bezziea policy curve, and its policy cirve could be related to systems thinking.
Look at the latest ERA paper and look for the bezziea (spelling it wrong) curve and hwo it turns it into an index, and uses that index for management. So starts heterogenous, then is used for many things in management, and it describes feedback for peopl. 
Send keith the first blog that iw wrote
When this draft is done, send it to keith, calvin, and joseph

I’ve been learning how to ask questions and be confident this month as well. Right now I work with several people. I’m in constant contact with Calvin, a data scientist, Keith, a student at University of Miami, Joseph, co-founder of Xalgorithims, and Ted, of course. I also attend weekly tech calls with a few other members of the team. The atmosphere I’m in right now as it relates to ERA and the tech calls is dominated by men. Although the work is virtual, the meetings are virtual, and I am aware that Amanda, a woman, also interned and was an integral part of ERA, there is still a sense of imposter syndrome. Not just because I’m an intern, but because I’m a woman too. After doing a bit of research of my own and discussing with my peers, I’ve realized this isn’t all too common, especially for Black women. I’ve also found a few ways to combat it.

 Imposter syndrome in itself, is a psychological state of mind in which one doubts their abilities despite evidence of competency. The term was coined by psychologists in the 1970s because many high achieving women felt inadequate in their positions despite being qualified. They attributed their success to ‘luck’ rather than merit. These thoughts can especially be brought on by historical discrimination against women and folks of color (Anene-Maidoh, 2020). When throughout your life you have experienced systemic oppression and been indirectly told the quality of your work is not good, and then start to achieve in ways that are contrary to that messaging, a sense of imposter syndrome sets in, especially for marginalized groups like Black women (Shery Nance-Nash, 2020).

At the first tech call I attended for Xalgorithms before taking on this position, I felt out of depth. This is normal for someone who is not in tech professionally and is very new to the foundation's work. But still feeling this way more than a month in and having this feeling intensify, I knew there was something deeper going on and that I needed to combat it. Over the past month or so, I’ve started becoming comfortable with asking ‘obvious’ questions. Learning python has been a struggle, but I succeeded most when I asked Ted to clarify the very fundamentals of what I needed to know. I have started being okay with asking questions that may seem elementary. I’ve also become comfortable with saying “I’m not sure.” The feeling of not knowing or having depth in a topic that's brought to you can be daunting, but by acknowledging that just because I may not be as knowledgeable in some areas as I am in others, that doesn't make me any less qualified for the position I am in, helps. Speaking in plain terms has helped me too. When things are starting to sound too complicated for me, I break them down into basic and readable terms. And honestly, I think that’s how science and technology communication should be. It should be broken down in a way that someone who is not a professional in these areas can understand. 

Most importantly, I've had to keep in mind that I was chosen to work here for a reason. I was sought out to be a part of ERA and by that fact alone, I know that I am competent and talented. This here is what has really been helping me along the way as I find new strategies to combat imposter syndrome. 

It’s been a steep start to working with Xalgorithms, but now that I am mastering the basics, things will start to even out and ramp up in terms of my ability to contribute to ERA specifically. I appreciate you taking the invitation to join this journey with me. Whether this is the first blog you’ve read or the second, I love writing these and I look forward to documenting more of my experiences, lessons, and gratitudes here. 
